in this video we're going to show
painting simulation using CSR robotics
the first thing we're going to do is
design a paint plume that we'll use to
then paint apart so to design a paint
blom will first open up the create paint
plume panel and give it a name and then
we'll choose a shape to the plume this
can either be a cone or a bell shape
will use the cone and use the default
values then you want to give it a paint
deposition function you can either
measure an actual plume then then we can
enter those values into the computer and
use those or we can use a mathematical
function such as a Gaussian or a by
Gaussian to simulate paint flow if we
use a Gaussian distribution we also use
on the left missed pressure air pressure
dry weight and flow rate when we when we
compute how much paint is being
deposited by the plume and here's a step
that we do to speed up the simulation we
call it integration so this red line
that goes through the plume is actually
the line that we're integrating the
paint along so we're summing up the
paint as it were to pass over that point
and cause that line to go through the
plume here will show it on the paint
bloom on a static plate you can see from
the update that the red is the thick
part because this is a Gaussian
distribution we're using kind of thin at
the edges then we can show this along a
moving plate and we can see that the
same kind of paint deposition applies
but to a moving pattern
let's go back and use a by Gaussian
distribution just to show the difference
of by Gaussian distribution is also
often produced by a paint gun that has a
little plug in the orifice that the
paint comes out so not much paint is
deposited in the center but it's more
around the edges of the plume so we'll
do this integration again and we'll
compute the flow through the paint
plumes so that we can just look that
value up to increase to improve our
simulation speed and then we'll go ahead
and will simulate it on a flat plate and
we simulate on a flat plate you can see
the the hole left behind by the paint
not in the center and it has a ring
where the heavy pain is and then we'll
look at it on a moving plate and there
you can see the the distribution doesn't
matter that much that there's a missing
part because you still get pretty good
coverage through that whole thing so
let's use this plume actually load in a
work cell with a ABB 3200 robot that's
painting a apart we've we've eliminated
all the the guard rails and the fixture
holding the part just so we can see it
more clearly so we'll paint both sides
of this part first thing we'll do is
we'll turn on the paint so when it moves
through the pa's it applies paint and
then we'll create will open the program
that's been created to paint apart
so notice on this side on the back side
of this part we're going to use the sort
of a to path up and down motion and then
you'll see on the other side will use a
back and forth motion just to get
different ideas how you would paint
apart we don't really concentrate on the
edges and we don't really concentrate on
getting the top and the bottom but which
you would have to do but this is a good
tool for for visualizing the paint and
seeing how much is deposited so it gives
a good idea of verification after it
gets painted then we can open up that
same paint update table that shows the
different colors corresponding to the
thickness and we can see that the you
can see where the red is deposited is
the heavy so let's look at the other
side and we can see that the streak down
the centers where the two plumes
overlaps we get a lot of pain down there
and on the on the front side the
back-and-forth pattern produced some
overlap looks like that yellow streak
has more paint there another thing we
can do is put arrows at the top five
vertices
so these are the points that probably
the paint will drip this is the heaviest
point on the on the part that has the
most pink this is a useful tool just for
quickly figuring out where the most most
pain is so from this simulation we can
also show contour maps and we can differ
we can have a difference between two
consecutive paintings to see how they
changed so these are tools that allow
you to create painting paths and
simulate the paint and verify thank you